 undergraduate degree in information and computer science @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Undergraduate  &gt;  Degrees  


     
 Undergraduate degree in Information and Computer Science 

 
 

 DEGREES AVAILABLE: Major and Minor</strong>     
 The overall field of information and computer science spans a vast spectrum of topics.              
		       
The degree in Information and Computer Science is an individually designed degree. Students must submit a proposal for a four-year plan of study along with a rationale for why the proposed plan is a well-motivated set of courses that does not fit into any of the existing ICS majors. Students submitting proposals are strongly encouraged to follow the lower-division requirements for one of the Bren School majors (or provide a rationale for why this is not appropriate) and should include at least 48 units of upper-division ICS, Computer Science, Informatics, or Statistics courses. Proposals must be approved by the ICS Associate Dean for Student Affairs.     ›  Is Information and Computer Science for me?  
			    ›  What do I take?  
			    ›  What can I do with this degree?  
			    ›  Special Programs and Learning Opportunities  
			    ›  Still not sure?     
      
 Is Information and Computer Science for me? 
The Information and Computer Science major is intended for highly motivated students who are currently enrolled at UCI, who find that their academic and career interests are not well served by any of the existing ICS majors, and would be better served by a uniquely designed course of study.           
 ↑  Back to top  
  
 What do I take? 
 ↑  Back to top      
 What can I do with this degree?   
  Graduates of the Information and Computer Science major pursue a broad variety of careers.  
 Since students have maximum flexibility in selecting their courses, they may choose to take any set of courses that best aligns with their career goals. 
 Upon completing their degree our students have been hired at Pixar, IBM, Yahoo, NASA, Microsoft, Google, Deloitte, Unisys, Accenture, Merrill Lynch, Blizzard, Broadcom, and many other world-renowned organizations.  
 Many students also go on to graduate school, continuing their studies, conducting research, and earning graduate degrees in computer engineering, computer science, information science, management or law. 
 ↑ Back to top  
  
 Special Programs and Learning Opportunities 
 
			  There are several ways to add depth, scope, and experiential 
learning to your academic program of study. An academic counselor will 
help you determine the most efficient way to add another major, minor, 
or concentration to your academic plan, and will refer you to other 
campus programs and resources that support your interests and future 
goals.
			   
    »</strong>  CONCENTRATIONS:</strong> 
    Engineering and Computer Science in the Global Context</strong>   
All Bren School majors in good standing may propose an academic plan 
that demonstrates the ability to complete the concentration and other 
requirements for graduation in a reasonable timeframe. 
 
The globalization of the marketplace for information technology services
 and products makes it likely that Bren ICS graduates will work in 
multicultural settings or be employed by companies with extensive 
international operations, or customer bases.  The goal of the 
concentration is to help students develop and integrate knowledge of the
 history, language and culture of a country or geographic region outside
 the United States, through coursework both at UCI and an international 
host campus, followed by a technology related internship in the host 
country.
 
 Application:</strong> 
Each student's proposed program of study, specifying coursework and a 
guided internship experience in a region outside the U.S., must be 
approved in advance by the Bren School of ICS Associate Dean for Student
 Affairs.  It is expected that each student's proposal will reflect a 
high degree of planning that includes the guidance of academic 
counselors and those at the UCI Center for International Education 
regarding course selection, as well as considerations related to 
internship opportunities, housing and financial aid.  The academic 
counselors and the Associate Dean will be available to assist qualified 
students with the development of a satisfactory academic plan, as 
needed.   Requirements:</strong>    A
 minimum of eight courses at UCI or at the international campus with an 
emphasis on the culture, language (if applicable and necessary), 
history, literature of the country that corresponds to the international
 portion of the program, international law, international labor policy, 
global issues, global institutions, global conflict and negotiation and 
global economics;   
  A
 one or two semester sequence of technical courses related to the major 
and, possibly, cultural, history, and literature courses taken at an 
international university;  
  A two month or longer technical internship experience in the same country as the international educational experience.  
  
    »</strong>  MINORS</strong>
 
Students inside and outside of the Bren School of ICS may want to pursue
 a minor, a coordinated set of courses which together take a student 
well beyond the introductory level in an academic field, subject, and/or
 discipline.  Note:  Some minor requirements may be fulfilled by the 
student’s major requirements.  Some major/minor combinations are not 
allowed.
 
   Biomedical Computing (10 courses)  
  Digital Information Systems (7 courses)  
  Informatics (8 courses)  
  Information and Computer Science (7 courses)  
  Statistics (7 courses)  
     »</strong>  OPPORTUNITIES FOR HONORS-LEVEL STUDY</strong> 
Students who are majoring in Biomedical Computing, Business Information 
Management, Computer Science, Computer Science and Engineering, and 
Information and Computer Science, and ICS Undeclared Pre-Majors are 
invited to apply for admission to the Bren School of ICS's introductory 
honors sequence (ICS H21/H22/H23).  These courses provide a uniquely 
challenging and intimate learning environment in which conventional 
course material is explored in greater depth.
   
   A student must meet at least one of the following criteria to be eligible to enroll in ICS H21: 
 
  Minimum 620 on each of 2 of 3 sections of the SAT; or 
 Member of the UCI Campuswide Honors Program; or 
 Verification of score of 3 or higher on AP Computer Science A exam; or 
  
Eligible students will be provided an authorization code (required) for 
course enrollment at the time of their summer orientation/registration 
session.
    »</strong>  BREN SCHOOL OF ICS HONORS PROGRAM </strong>   
              Allows juniors and seniors majoring in Computer Science, 
Computer Science and Engineering, Informatics, or Information and 
Computer Science to pursue advanced work in one of many research areas. 
 Students admitted to the program participate in an honors seminar, 
conduct independent research under the guidance of a faculty member, and
 write a research paper.  
 More information about eligibility criteria and benefits of successful completion of the honors program is available at the  Honors program web site .  
    »</strong>  INDEPENDENT RESEARCH OPPORTUNITIES</strong>   
              The School encourages all majors to take advantage of this
 valuable experience, and faculty advertise many research opportunities 
every year.  
 Students are also encouraged to participate in the campus  Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program (UROP) ,
 which offers guidance and grant funding for student-proposed 
independent research, and sponsors programs which provide summer 
stipends for students working on faculty-guided research. 
    »</strong>  CAMPUSWIDE HONORS PROGRAM</strong>   
              Available to selected high-achieving students from all 
academic majors from their freshman through senior years. For more 
information see the  CHP web site .  
    »</strong>  EDUCATION ABROAD PROGRAM</strong>  
              Upper-division students have the opportunity to experience
 different cultures while making progress toward degree objectives 
through the  Education Abroad Program (EAP) .  
 EAP is an overseas study program which operates in cooperation with host universities and colleges throughout the world.  
    »</strong>  OTHER PROGRAMS OF INTEREST</strong> 
   UCI SAGE (Student Achievement Guided by Experience) Scholars Program  
  UCI California Teach Initiative   
  UCI Washington Academic Internship Program   
  UC/DC Internship Program  
  UCI Administrative Intern Program  
  ↑ Back to top  
  
 Still not sure?  
 
Prospective and current UCI students interested in learning more about the Bren School’s degree options are encouraged to meet with the school’s 
counselors and student ambassadors. They will help you determine which of our majors and minors best support your academic strengths and 
interests. Call our Student Affairs Office at 949-824-5156 to make an appointment. 
  ↑ Back to top  


 
 
 
  More Undergraduate » 
   Contact  
  Academic advising  
  Academic year plan  
  ICS majors 
   Double major  
  2nd baccalaureate  
  
  ICS minors  
  Petitions  
  Policies 
   Academic honesty  
  Academic standing  
  Add, drop, &amp; change options  
  Coursework outside UCI  
  Grade policy  
  Laptop &amp; computer use  
  Withdrawal/Readmission  
  
  Graduation  
  ICS student life  
  Upcoming Events  
  Computing support  
  
   Quick Links   
                            
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 