 concentration in informatics - track in interactive and collaborative technology @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Graduate  &gt;  Degrees  


     
 Information and Computer Science Degree 

 
 

 The  UCI General Catalogue 
 is the official guide to all degree and graduation requirements; the 
information below is intended for general planning purposes only. Please see  here  for previous calendar years 
  
    Concentration in Informatics - Track in Interactive and Collaborative 
Technology (INF-ICT), (M.S. and Ph.D.)</strong>  

 The ICT track of the Informatics concentration focuses on studying 
and enhancing the relationship between the design and use of interactive
 systems and their applications in real-world settings. 
    CURRENT DEGREE REQUIREMENTS</strong>  
 
UCI enjoys an international reputation for its research on the human 
and social dimensions of computer system design and use. There are two 
principal strands to this work. The first concerns the interaction 
between people and computers, including novel forms of interactive 
experience beyond traditional desktop computing. The second concerns the
 role that computer systems can play in collaborative work between 
individuals, groups, and organizations.
 Examples of topics that ICT researchers investigate include: adoption
 and diffusion of collaborative technologies; software architectures for
 user-adaptive systems; universal access to interactive systems; design 
principles for information visualization; and new patterns of 
computer-mediated work such as virtual teams. 
 The approach used places equal emphasis on three areas of 
investigation--empirical, theoretical, and technical. The empirical work
 involves studying technology in use, using both laboratory techniques 
and fieldwork investigations of real-world settings. The theoretical 
research employs and develops analytic understanding of the 
relationships among technology, people, organizations, and social 
settings. Finally, in the technical work, ICT researchers develop new 
models and technologies for interaction with and collaboration through 
technology. Students in the ICT track gain a thorough grounding in all 
three areas. 
 The cornerstone of this approach is to study real use of technology, 
as it occurs in real-world settings. ICT researchers believe that the 
success or failure of technology depends on how people can fit that 
technology into real practice, balancing technical, cognitive, social, 
and cultural dimensions.  
 Using an interdisciplinary approach, ICT research aims at a deeper 
understanding of interaction with and collaboration through technology, 
and at exploiting these insights for the design of better systems. 


 
 
 
  More Graduate » 
   Contact  
  Prospective students  
  How to Apply  
  Programs of study  
  Academic year plan  
  Forms  
  Policies  
  Funding &amp; housing  
  Computing support  
  Campus resources  
  Visit the Bren School  
  Graduate Student Handbook  
  
   Quick Links   
                        
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 