 Theory Seminar, 23 Jan 2004<body>
    

 ICS 269, Winter 2004: Theory Seminar 

  30 Jan 2004: 
Split flows and elusive outliers: solving two problems in modern computing
 
Amic Chaudhary, UCI
 
 
The world of computing is witnessing simultaneous explosions in data
and connectivity.  We need computer systems that meet the challenges
of this evolving world while exploiting the benefits inherent in it.
In this talk we shall look at two case studies of constructing
algorithms for such systems.

  
A simple technique harnesses the large connectivity of modern
networks
to provide not only fault tolerance, but also information security
--- insisting that all flow (or, communication) is split through edge
disjoint paths.  The question is: How does the amount of possible
flow
change under the splitting constraint?  Or, more particularly, can we
solve, in this scenario, the admission control type, or route (path)
coloring type, or any other type of problems that have been studied
for regular flows?  In the first case study, we shall present results
and algorithms that answer some of these questions.

  
In the second case study, we shall present an implementation for very
fast detection of outliers from large data sets in high dimensional
space.  Detecting outliers is important in catching network
intrusions and other fraud, in detecting bio-terrorist attacks, and,
in our particular application, finding unique objects in astronomical
databases. We shall show that a simple twist to the ubiquitous k-d
tree leads to a method that makes no assumption about an underlying
probability model, but when compared to state-of-the-art
implementations of data mining algorithms that do make such
assumptions, performs just as well.

 </body> 