 Archive of Working Group on Versioning and Configuration Management of World Wide Web Content: RE: An attempt at taxonomy<body> RE: An attempt at taxonomy 
 Yaron Goland  (  yarong@microsoft.com  )  Tue, 3 Sep 1996 13:30:07 -0700 
 
     Messages sorted by:   [ date ]  [ thread ]  [ subject ]  [ author ] 

    Next message:   Dave Long: "Re: An attempt at taxonomy" 
    Previous message:   Bruce Brown: "Re: lock/checkout/reserve/edit" 


    
I also think the groups should be combined if only so as to insure that
the protocols are orthogonal to each other. A separation between
distributed authoring and versioning will be fairly arbitrary and if the
two groups do not work closely together they will run over each other's
toes. Besides all of the posts have been going to both groups anyway.
				Yaron

&gt;----------
&gt;From: 	Christopher Seiwald[SMTP:seiwald@perforce.com]
&gt;Sent: 	Tuesday, September 03, 1996 11:18 AM
&gt;To: 	 w3c-dist-auth@w3.org;  www-vers-wg@ics.UCI.EDU
&gt;Subject: 	Re: An attempt at taxonomy
&gt;
&gt;Arrgh.  Personally, I'd like to see these lists combined.  The whole
&gt;debacle about checkout cookies (which, I am not mistaken, squarely
&gt;touches both your "distributed authoring" and "versioning" definitions).
&gt;I don't think we can have two separate sets of conversations in isolation
&gt;from each other.  As soon as you talk about collaborative work, you talk
&gt;about versioning.
&gt;
&gt;It would also be nice if Jim could set up his list server so that a
&gt;reply when to the list, not to the author.
&gt;
&gt;I, too, have been doing the "delete delete" dance.
&gt;
&gt;Christopher
&gt;
&gt;
 

  
     Next message:   Dave Long: "Re: An attempt at taxonomy" 
    Previous message:   Bruce Brown: "Re: lock/checkout/reserve/edit" 


  </body> 