 10.7 OEGetTag<body>
 
       
     
        
 OEChem - API Manual
 
Version 1.3.1      
     
   
   
   Previous:   10.6 OEBitVectorXor 
 Up:   10. OESystem Functions 
 Next:   10.8 OEHasTag 
   


  Â  
 
10.7 OEGetTag
 

 
The OEGetTag functions serve to associate a text string tag with a
corresponding unsigned integer tag.  Because integer comparisons are
often faster than character string comparisons, operations which
require a potentially large number of data comparisons may benefit by
using integer instead of string data.  The OEGetTag functions serve to
associate, store and retrieve string and integer tags.

  
    
const char *OEGetTag(unsigned int tag)
    
This function retrieves a character string tag associated with an
integer tag.  If no string tag has been associated with the passed
integer tag, a pointer to a null-terminated pointer character string
is returned.  The function should always return a non-zero pointer.

  
    
unsigned int OEGetTag(const std::string &amp;tag)
    
This function retrieves an integer tag associated with the character
string stored in the STL string object.  The first call to OEGetTag
with a particular character string creates an association with an
arbitrary unique integer, and returns the associated integer tag.
Subsequent calls to OEGetTag with the same character string value
return the associated integer tag.  No guarantees are made regarding
the allocation of integer values associated with character string
values.

  
    
unsigned int OEGetTag(const char *tag)
    
This function retrieves an integer tag associated with a constant
character string.  The first call to OEGetTag with a particular
character string creates an association with an arbitrary unique
integer, and returns the associated integer tag.  Subsequent calls to
OEGetTag with the same character string value return the associated
integer tag.  No guarantees are made regarding the allocation of
integer values associated with character string values.

  

  
          
     
        
 OEChem - API Manual
 
Version 1.3.1      
     
   
   
   Previous:   10.6 OEBitVectorXor 
 Up:   10. OESystem Functions 
 Next:   10.8 OEHasTag 
  Documentation released on July 30, 2004. 
 


</body> 