 Theory Seminar, 15 Nov 1996<body>
    

 ICS 269, Fall 1996: Theory Seminar 

  15 Nov 1996: 
BSP Trees: From Introduction to New Results 
Jason Cahill, ICS, UC Irvine 

 I have always been fascinated by visibility problems arising in
both computational geometry and computer graphics. In computer game
development, an area I watch fervently, we have seen an enormous
growth in the number and type of 3D entertainment products. The
quality of these titles are often judged not just by their
entertainment value, but also on the sheer performance of their
graphics engine. While inexpensive 3D hardware is capable of
rasterizing (or drawing) more polygons than ever before, a basic
problem still remains: How do we represent complex 3D worlds for
efficient rendering. The BSP tree proves to be a very practical
data-structure for performing visibility amongst static data sets,
when given an arbitrary viewing position. As a result, it has been
used by all of the best 3D entertainment products to date. 

 The focus of my talk will begin with a introduction to
general-case BSP trees, and we will see how these magnificent
structures can be used to store models which can then be
depth-sorted and rasterized in linear time. From here, I will turn
my discussion to a new result from the FOCS '96 Proceedings, which
examines the construction of BSP trees when we are confined to 2D
rectangles in axis-aligned 3D space. 

 (Based on Material By: Foley, et al. [Computer Graphics:
Principles and Practice 2nd Ed.], Abrash [a talk at CGDC '96: the
Computer Game Developer's Conference], and Agarwal, Grove, Murali,
and Vitter [FOCS '96: "BSP Trees for Fat Rectangles"]) 
</body> 