 WICS - Women in Information and Computer Sciences - 10/11<body>  

   

 
     HOME  |  ABOUT WICS  |  NCWIT  | OFFICERS  |  NEWS  |   UPCOMING EVENTS   |  PAST EVENTS   |  JOBS  |  PHOTOS  |  CONTACT  |  LINKS   
   

    WICS 2011/2012 - About WICS 


 
   
               
     
   
 
  Women in Information And Computer Sciences (WICS)
is a non-profit organization that has been established to help and
encourage women to pursue a college degree and a successful career in
the Computer Science fields. We work together with a common ambition:
To meet, encourage and help each other succeed and gain equal
opportunity for women in a challenging field.    


          Facts about the percentage of Women enrolled in Computer Sciences:  
        Women
in Information And Computer Sciences (WICS) is an organization which
helps encourage young women to be successful in the technological
fields. These are strong women determined to support and encourage
other fellow peers who are pursuing a degree from the school of
Information and Computer Sciences, as well as in all other Computer
Science related fields. 
         The
organization has much to offer, such as outreach programs to primary
and secondary school students, networking with faculty, and with
business people and companies outside of UCI, as well as workshops to
improve their interview skills and help them become even more
successful in the future. 
         Although
female students make up 50% of high school Computer Science (CS)
classes, the percentage enrolled in CS programs in college is
significantly less. According to the National Center for Education
Statistics at the U.S. Department of Education, the percentage of
bachelor's degrees in CS awarded to women in the 1993-94 academic year
was only 28.4% (the last year for which they have published figures). 
         These
numbers have been dropping steadily from a high point in 1983, when 37%
of the bachelor's degrees awarded in CS went to women. (Note that the
percentage of all bachelor's degrees awarded to women was 50% in
1983-84 and 55% in 1993-94.) At the graduate level, the percentages are
better, but still dropping for master's degrees in CS, with a high of
29% awarded to women in 1983-84 down to 25% in 1993-94. For Ph.D.
degrees, the picture is better, with a high of 15% in 1993-94 (10% in
1983-84). 
         More recent
statistics come from the 1997-98 CRA Taulbee Survey of departments that
grant Ph.D.s in Computer Science. The percentage of bachelor's degrees
in CS awarded to women in the 1997-98 academic year was only 16%. 
         For
graduate degrees awarded in CS in 1997-98, the percentage of master's
and Ph.D. degrees awarded to women were 22% and 14%, respectively. In
addition, only 16% assistant professors, 12% associate professors, and
8% full professors are women in CS Ph.D.-granting departments. 
          
          How the Bren School helps Women in the Information and Computer Science fields:   
        UC
Irvine's Information and Computer Science (ICS) department hosts the
largest computing major at any UC Campus with 1,361 undergraduate
majors, 58 MS students, 258 Ph.D. students, and 3800 Alumni  
        (Source: Student Characteristics Summary, Fall 2004). 
         Out
of the total of 1,375 ICS students, 248 are females (16.5%). ICS has 37
full-time regular ranks faculty members, of which seven are women
(almost 20%, well above the average nationwide of 11%.) 
         By
joining student clubs such as WICS, female students can surround
themselves with their peers and positive influences who, not only work
with and can assist them with their classes and curriculum, but can
also help them network with other successful women, giving them even
more opportunities to succeed.  
          
 
 
 



 
    

  
</body> 