 9.1.17 SetData<body>
 
       
     
        
 OEChem - API Manual
 
Version 1.3.1      
     
   
   
   Previous:   9.1.16 SetBoolData 
 Up:   9.1 OEBase 
 Next:   9.1.18 SetDoubleData 
   


  
9.1.17 SetData 
 
   
template&lt;typename T&gt; bool SetData(unsigned int tag, const T t)
template&lt;typename T&gt; bool SetData(const char *tag, const T t)
    
These template methods store a copy of primitive or user-defined data passed
as the second argument with a data tag identifier passed as the first
argument.  If data of the same type has been stored using the identical tag in
a previous AddData or SetData call, subsequent calls to SetData will overwrite
the first instance of data stored with the data tag.  If a call to SetData
succeeds in storing or overwriting previously stored data the method will
return true.  SetData will return false if a copy of the data cannot be made.
If data has been stored previously associated with a data tag, subsequent
calls to SetData with the identical data tag but with different data type will
result in a run-time warning being written and a return value of false.  Note
that these methods will not make copies of data passed by pointer.  Values to
be passed by pointer, or arrays, should be stored using the following SetData
methods.

  
    
template&lt;typename T&gt;
bool SetData(unsigned int tag, const T t, unsigned int len)
template&lt;typename T&gt;
bool SetData(const char *tag, const T t, unsigned int len)
    
These template methods store copies of arrays of primitive or user-defined
data passed as the second argument with a data tag identifier passed as the
first argument.  The length of the array (number of elements) is passed as the
third argument to the method.  If data of the same type has been stored using
the identical tag in a previous AddData or SetData call, subsequent calls to
SetData will overwrite the first instance of data stored with the data tag.
The array copy stored previously will be deallocated and a copy of the new
array will be stored.  If a call to SetData succeeds in storing or overwriting
an array stored previously the method will return true.  SetData will return
false if a copy of the data cannot be made.  If data has been stored
previously associated with a data tag, subsequent calls to SetData with the
identical data tag but with different data type will result in a run-time
warning being written and a return value of false.

  

  
          
     
        
 OEChem - API Manual
 
Version 1.3.1      
     
   
   
   Previous:   9.1.16 SetBoolData 
 Up:   9.1 OEBase 
 Next:   9.1.18 SetDoubleData 
  Documentation released on July 30, 2004. 
 


</body> 