 rISAJournal<body>
  Compilation Framework for Code Size Reduction using 
Reduced Bit-width ISAs
 
  
   

  
  Aviral Shrivastava  ,
  Partha Biswas  ,
  Ashok Halambi  ,
  Nikil Dutt  , and
  Alex Nicolau  
 

   ACM TODAES:   ACM Transactions on Design Automation of Electronic Systems 
 

   Abstract:  
For many embedded applications, program code size is a 
critical design factor. One promising approach for reducing 
code size is to employ a "dual instruction set", where 
processor architectures support a normal (usually 32 bit) 
Instruction Set, and a narrow, space-efficient (usually 16 
bit) Instruction Set with a limited set of opcodes and 
access to a limited set of registers. This feature
however, requires compilers that can reduce code size by 
compiling for both Instruction Sets. Existing compiler 
techniques operate at the routine-level granularity and 
are unable to make the trade-off between increased register 
pressure (resulting in more spills) and decreased code size. 
We present a compilation framework for such dual instruction 
sets, which uses a profitability based compiler heuristic 
that operates at the instruction-level granularity and is 
able to effectively take advantage of both Instruction Sets. 
We demonstrate consistent and improved code size reduction
(on average 22%), for the MIPS 32/16 bit ISA. We also show 
that the code compression obtained by this "dual instruction 
set" technique is heavily dependent on the application 
characteristics and the narrow Instruction Set itself.
  


      
      Center For Embedded Computer Systems,  
      Department of Information and Computer Science, 
      University of California, Irvine.
       
       </body> 