 1.1 OEChem and Informatics<body>
 
       
     
        
 OEChem - C++ Theory Manual
 
Version 1.3.1      
     
   
   
   Previous:   1. Introduction 
 Up:   1. Introduction 
 Next:   1.2 How to Read 
   


  
1.1 OEChem and Informatics 
 

 
Chemical information processing is the science of representing molecules
in computers. Hence the fundamental ``object'' or data structure within a
chemical information system is that of the molecule, its atoms and its
bonds.

  
A significant problem encountered in such systems is that different
applications place differing requirements or constraints on how a
molecule is represented. In protein biochemistry, molecules are divided
into amino acid residues with specific atom naming and conformational
information such as alpha helix or beta sheet. In inorganic chemistry
requires isotopic and co-ordination information on each atom which
complex chiralities. One possible solution is to prescribe a single data
structure that encodes all of the potential information required of an
atom. However, such an approach suffers from the fact that ``you can't
please all of the chemists, all of the time.'' A requirement in the field
of chemical databases and substructure searching is that a molecule
representation be as compact as possible, to allow as much information
to be held in memory as possible and maximize the performance of
processing databases from disk.

  
The alternative, even complementary, approach taken by OEChem is to
concentrate on the similarities in molecule processing, rather than on
the differences. Using the concepts of ``polymorphism'' from object
oriented programming, it possible to write algorithms that are mostly
independent of the actual data structure used to store a molecule.

  

  
          
     
        
 OEChem - C++ Theory Manual
 
Version 1.3.1      
     
   
   
   Previous:   1. Introduction 
 Up:   1. Introduction 
 Next:   1.2 How to Read 
  Documentation released on July 30, 2004. 
 


</body> 