 Arcadia Collected Papers: ABSTRACT<body>
  
Arcadia Papers: ABSTRACT 
  
" An Analysis of Test Data Selection Criteria Using the RELAY Model of
Fault Detection ," 
by Debra J. Richardson and Margaret C. Thompson in
 IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering ,
SE-19(5):327-344, May 1993.

  Abstract  

RELAY is a model of faults and failures that defines failure conditions, 
which describe test data for which execution will guarantee that a fault 
originates erroneous behavior that also transfers through computations and 
information flow until a failure is revealed. This model of fault detection 
provides a framework within which other testing criteria's capabilities 
can be evaluated. In this paper, we analyze three test data selection 
criteria that attempt to detect faults in six fault classes. This analysis 
shows that none of these criteria is capable of guaranteeing detection for 
these fault classes and points out two major weaknesses of these criteria. 
The first weakness is that the criteria do not consider the potential 
unsatisfiability of their rules; each criterion includes rules that are 
sufficient to cause potential failures for some fault classes, yet when 
such rules are unsatisfiable, many faults may remain undetected. Their 
second weakness is failure to integrate their proposed rules; although a 
criterion may cause a subexpression to take on an erroneous value, there 
is no effort made to guarantee that the intermediate values cause 
observable, erroneous behavior. This paper shows how the RELAY model 
overcomes these weaknesses. 

  
 The Arcadia Project
&lt;arcadia-www@ics.uci.edu&gt;  
Last modified: Fri Nov 11 14:41:24 1994
 
</body> 