 graduate student policies @ the bren school of information and computer sciences<body>


 

 
 

           

           

       









     

                
              
                
                     ABOUT 

                    
                       About the School  
                          Dean's Welcome  
                          Facts and Figures  
                          Donald Bren Hall  
                          Visit the Bren School  
                          Equity &amp; Diversity 
                           Contact Us  
                        
                      
                
                 
                
                      DEPARTMENTS  
                    

                       Computer Science  
                          Informatics  
                          Statistics  
                      
                
                 
                
                      RESEARCH  
                
                
                       Research Areas  
                          Research Centers  
                          Research Highlights  
                      
                
                
                
                 
                
                      EDUCATION  
                    

                       Graduate ▸  
                        
                               Prospective Students  
                              How to Apply  
                              Programs of Study  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Forms  
                              Policies  
                              Funding &amp; Housing  
                              Computing Support  
                              Campus Resources  
                              Visit the Bren School  
                              Graduate Student Handbook  
                              Contact  
                              
                        
                          Undergraduate ▸  
                        
                               Contact  
                              Academic Advising  
                              Academic Year Plan  
                              Petitions  
                              ICS Majors  
                              ICS Minors  

                              Policies: Academic Integrity  
                              Policies: Academic Standing  
                              Policies: Add, drop, &amp; change options  
                              Policies: Coursework outside UCI  
                              Policies: Grade policy  
                              Policies: Laptop &amp; computer use  
                              Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission  

                                Graduation  
                                ICS Student Life  
                                Upcoming Events  
                                Computing Support  
                              

                        
                          Prospective Undergrad  


                          Scholarships &amp; Fellowships  
                        
                                                    
                      

    
                 
                    
                     PEOPLE                       
                    
                
                       Faculty  
                          Staff  
                          Graduate Students  
                          Alumni  
                      
                                
                
                  
                
                     NEWS &amp; EVENTS 
                    
                    
                       Newsroom  
                          Events  
                          Press releases  
                          Annual reports  
                      

                 
                
                     GET INVOLVED 
                
                
                       Make a Gift  
                              Leadership Council  
                              Corporate Partners  
                              Sponsor Projects  
                              Product Development Competition  
                              ZotLink Jobs &amp; Internships  
                            
                      


                 
                                 

              










    

  Bren school home  &gt;  Graduate  &gt;  policies  


     
 Graduate Student Policies: M.S. Thesis Option 

 
 

  Master’s Thesis Option
  
 The thesis option is available to M.S. students who do not plan to take
the comprehensive exam and who are in good academic standing with the School
(note this option not available to students in the Statistics program).
Students pursuing this option must enroll in at least two quarters of Thesis
Supervision (CS 298 or Inf 298), which will substitute for two required courses
as specified under the concentration area or track of choice. 
A
committee of three faculty members, the majority of whom must be from the
student’s department, will guide the student and give final approval of the
thesis. The committee consists of an advisor, who must be from the student’s
department and who is willing to supervise the thesis project, and two other
faculty members who are willing to serve on the committee as readers. An oral
presentation of the thesis to the committee is required.M.S. Thesis Option Policy
 A thesis option is available to M.S. students who do not plan to take the 
comprehensive exam and who are in good academic standing with the School. 
Students pursuing this option must enroll in at least two quarters of Thesis 
Supervision (CS 298 or INF 298) which will substitute for two required courses 
as specified under the concentration area or specialization of choice (not available to students in the Statistics program).  
 A committee of three faculty members will guide the student and give final 
approval of the thesis. The committee consists of an advisor (from the student's 
department/program), who is willing to supervise the thesis project, and two 
other faculty members (one of whom must be from the student's 
department/program), who are willing to serve on the committee as readers. An 
oral presentation of the thesis to the committee is required. 


 
 
 
  More Graduate » 
   Contact  
  Prospective students  
  How to Apply  
  Programs of study  
  Academic year plan  
  Forms  
  Policies  
  Funding &amp; housing  
  Computing support  
  Campus resources  
  Visit the Bren School  
  Graduate Student Handbook  
  
   Quick Links   
                        
   
  Copyright Inquiries  |
    UCI Directory  |
    Intranet  |
   
   
 
   icswebmaster  
 
</body> 