 D:\My Documents\Download\flowersweb.html<body>

    UC IRVINE - ICS 125 PROJECT IN SYSTEM DESIGN 
     PROJECT DESCRIPTION 
     
      Complex Problem Discovery Capture System 

 Mark Bergman 

  mbergman@ics.uci.edu  

 Project Statement  

 In brief, I want to create a feedback system that facilitates/supports organizational
problem discovery. My idea is to augment/change a chat tool to support this activity. The
feedback system would be a network of interrelated chat rooms that represent the social
network aspect of the existing workflow. The social part of a workflow network can be seen
as: who works with &amp; for whom to get something done in addition to who hands finished
work, usually an artifact with data/information, to whom or performs a service for whom).
Hence, the first step in creating the complex feedback network is capturing a snapshot the
existing workflow in an area where a new system is proposed (for example, a new travel
planning system) is captured. It can be assumed, for the sake of this project, that such
snapshots would be available to the students who are designing the new system.  

 The social part of the workflow network is to be used as the basis for chat room
population. A room would be populated per person, from his/her point-of-view in the
workflow network. This person controls their own chat room. Rooms are private and can only
be entered by invitation only. Since the rooms are constructed from each person's work
perspective, there will be overlap of people across various rooms. This way, people will
be able to peer in and respond issues/problems being brought up by people 'upstream' and
'downstream' from them in the workflow network and well as those who work directly with
them, on an issue.  

 To accomplish this, a chat system needs be augmented with the following functionality:  

 * Ability to create 'seeded' chat rooms from a XML netlist of a workflow network.  

 * Ability to timestamp and log all activity within each and every chat room.  

 * Logs are to be (simple) XML formatted  

 * (Simple) Log Management Tool: Basic multi-file editing capabilities 

 * Ability to start/stop all of the chat room discussion.  

 * Ability to enter a seed problem, i.e. a general broadcast statement, and have it
display in all of the chat rooms.  

 * Ability for the members to bring up the main heuristics they are to follow while
'chatting':  

 * Describe how the problem affects you and your work.  

 * Describe what changes you would do the deal with the problem.  

 * Describe how this (or related) problem(s) affect people/tasks upstream and downstream
from you.  

 * Respond to other's problems as discussed.  

 * Ability to enforce the privacy of the rooms. 

   

 Project Resources 

 * Java based chat tool 

 * Java 1.2.x JDK 

 * Supplied Workflow Netlist Structure (Note, this could be part of the assignment to
design this) 

 * XML based flatfile 

 More Info 
   ICS125 WQ00 Project Opportunities   ICS125 WQ00   David F. Redmiles � Home Page   Department of Information and Computer Science   University of California, Irvine CA 92717-3425   
</body> 